- [Instructor] Now that we're ready to dig into Spring Data,
we need to talk about a pattern that is central
to the operation of Spring Data
and that is the repository pattern.
So let's talk about how the repository pattern
is used in Spring.
First and foremost, as mentioned,
most of Spring Data is based on this pattern.
Spring JDBC can be used also to create repository
type actions, or DAO actions, and while part of Spring Data,
they have unfortunately lost favor with many developers.
We will also see later in the course
how Spring Data repositories can be used
to create web services on their own.
Now, I want to kind of walk
through the pattern is itself in a nutshell.
First of all, it was introduced
as part of domain-driven design
and often when we're building microservices,
that's the design pattern that we are using.
There are simple operations of an entity
or business object without knowledge
of other entities as in a DAO.
Under this abstraction,
the data access operations are hidden from the user.
Now, what this really means is
as you reach into the repository
and you get a single entity and you do work on that entity,
if you need multiple entities,
those are done in separate database transactions.
Again, the data access itself is hidden
behind the repository.
Now, why might you do this in a Spring Data world?
First and foremost, databases have become the bottleneck
for many applications.
By using Spring Data repositories,
you prevent data access logic
from leaking into your business logic
and oftentimes a lot of our bottlenecks
come from that leakage.
Additionally, using Spring Data repositories allows you
to provide a layer of abstraction
to hide the internal operations again,
which is what you want with abstraction itself.
And it also allows you to focus
on single business objects at a time.
Now in a traditional monolithic service
that works in an enterprise,
this may at times seem counterintuitive,
but when you're dealing with microservice especially,
repository patterns have a lot of power.
So let's talk about the general creation strategy
that we're going to employ when we build a repository.
So first and foremost, you start
with the repository interface in Spring Data
or you can create your own interface using generics.
You define common data access methods.
Now with Spring Data repositories,
many of those are predefined for you
as part of the parent interface itself.
Then, you apply any additional business logic
to the repository instance
and leverage that data access logic under the hood.